<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Bibliography</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Bibliography</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">I</span> quoted several bits from Frederick P. Brooks's classic “<i>The Mythical Man-Month</i>” because, in many respects, his insights have yet to be improved upon. I heartily recommend the 25<sup>th</sup> Anniversary edition from Addison-Wesley (ISBN 0-201-83595-9), which adds his 1986 “<i>No Silver Bullet</i>” paper.</p>
	<p>The new edition is wrapped up by an invaluable 20-years-later retrospective in which Brooks forthrightly admits to the few judgements in the original text which have not stood the test of time. I first read the retrospective after the first public version of this essay was substantially complete, and was surprised to discover that Brooks attributed bazaar-like practices to Microsoft! (In fact, however, this attribution turned out to be mistaken. In 1998 we learned from the Halloween Documents that Microsoft's internal developer community is heavily balkanized, with the kind of general source access needed to support a bazaar not even truly possible.)</p>
	<p>Gerald M. Weinberg's “<i>The Psychology Of Computer Programming</i>” (New York, Van Nostrand Reinhold 1971) introduced the rather unfortunately-labeled concept of “egoless programming”. While he was nowhere near the first person to realize the futility of the “principle of command”, he was probably the first to recognize and argue the point in particular connection with software development.</p>
	<p>Richard P. Gabriel, contemplating the Unix culture of the pre-Linux era, reluctantly argued for the superiority of a primitive bazaar-like model in his 1989 paper “<i>LISP: Good News, Bad News, and How To Win Big</i>”. Though dated in some respects, this essay is still rightly celebrated among LISP fans (including me). A correspondent reminded me that the section titled “<i>Worse Is Better</i>” reads almost as an anticipation of Linux. The paper is accessible on the World Wide Web at <a href="http://www.naggum.no/worse-is-better.html">http://www.naggum.no/worse-is-better.html</a>.</p>
	<p>De Marco and Lister's “<i>Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams</i>” (New York; Dorset House, 1987; ISBN 0-932633-05-6) is an underappreciated gem which I was delighted to see Fred Brooks cite in his retrospective. While little of what the authors have to say is directly applicable to the Linux or open-source communities, the authors' insight into the conditions necessary for creative work is acute and worthwhile for anyone attempting to import some of the bazaar model's virtues into a commercial context.</p>
	<p>Finally, I must admit that I very nearly called this essay “<i>The Cathedral and the Agora</i>”, the latter term being the Greek for an open market or public meeting place. The seminal “agoric systems” papers by Mark Miller and Eric Drexler, by describing the emergent properties of market-like computational ecologies, helped prepare me to think clearly about analogous phenomena in the open-source culture when Linux rubbed my nose in them five years later. These papers are available on the Web at <a href="http://www.agorics.com/agorpapers.html">http://www.agorics.com/agorpapers.html</a>.</p>

</body>
</html>
