<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Slightly Enhanced Introduction (2014)</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Slightly Enhanced Introduction (2014)</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">A</span>s time marches steadily onward, two things become face-punching-ly clear: I suck (rather spectacularly) at eating spaghetti without making a major damned mess… and Linux increases its level of Badassery at an exponential rate.</p>
	<p>It is with this crucial truth in mind – the Linux thing, not the spaghetti thing… I don’t even know why I brought that up – that I decided “Linux is Badass” deserved to be updated for 2014. If Linux is going to be so much more mind-exploding-ly amazing in 2014 than in 2013, so too must this book step up its game.</p>
	<p>In the pages that follow you will gain a glimpse into my soul. That spark, deep down, that makes me who I am. That differentiates me from people who have normal jobs. My essence.</p>
	<p>That’s right. Poetry. About Linux. Often using the word “fuck”.</p>
	<p>“How does a bunch of dirty poetry explain how Linux is Badass? This book is shitty and Bryan Lunduke is an asshole.”</p>
	<p>An excellent question, random prick I just made up! I’ll tell you!</p>
	<p>If you can read a poem – on any topic – and, at the end, sit back and think to yourself, “that was pretty badass”... then that proves the topic of the poem itself to be of an extraordinary level of badassness. Case in point, that man from nantucket. (You know, the “There once was a man from Nantucket” guy.) That dude? Badass.</p>
	<p>I also have a firm belief that most amazing things in this world can be ruthlessly ridiculed and, if they truly are as stellar as we think they are, they emerge looking even more badicall than before.</p>
	<p>Also, as that guy I made up a few paragraphs pointed out, I’m an asshole. So many of these poems are making fun of Linux.</p>
	<p>Because Linux is awesome. And it can take it.</p>
	<p>Also the asshole thing.</p>

</body>
</html>
