<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>“The Complete History of Ubuntu (Abridged)”</title>
</head>

<body>

	<h1 class="heading">“The Complete History of Ubuntu (Abridged)”</h1>

	<p class="quote center top">Gather ’round, my friends and hear a most nerdy tale.</p>
	<p class="quote center">A tale about Linux (and a very small whale).</p>

	<p class="quote center top">Our story begins back in nineteen ninety three.</p>
	<p class="quote center">With some dude named Ian, who had a girlfriend, you see.</p>

	<p class="quote center top">Her name was Debra, if I’m remembering right.</p>
	<p class="quote center">So he put their names together, and made some Linux one night.</p>

	<p class="quote center top">And so Debian was born from two names together.</p>
	<p class="quote center">(We’re just lucky it wasn’t “Brangelina” or “Bennifer”.)</p>

	<p class="quote center top">Fast forward, ye all, to two thousand and four.</p>
	<p class="quote center">When some astronaut dude wanted to make something more.</p>

	<p class="quote center top">“This Debian’s cool,” he said. “I like it a lot!”</p>
	<p class="quote center">“But if it were orange and brown? Hot damn, that’d be hot!”</p>

	<p class="quote center top">So he took his space money and started a team.</p>
	<p class="quote center">And created a warthog, the best we’d yet seen!</p>

	<p class="quote center top">Oh, everyone loved it! Oh, everyone cheered!</p>
	<p class="quote center">Except those wearing red hats, or with a neck beard.</p>

	<p class="quote center top">The spaceman got excited, “I know just what to do!”</p>
	<p class="quote center">“We’ll build it for TVs and probably phones too!”</p>

	<p class="quote center top">“There’s no way we can lose! No way we can fail!”</p>
	<p class="quote center">Said the spaceman while riding a small, orange whale.</p>

</body>
</html>
