<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>“It just works”? Fuck that!</title>
</head>

<body>

	<h1 class="heading">“It just works?” Fuck that!</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">L</span>et me tell you a little story.</p>
	<p>Once upon a time, there was a perfectly average little boy. Let's call him Stanley.</p>
	<p>From the time Stanley was born, until his 18th birthday, he never had to work a single day. No after school jobs, no mowing lawns for neighbors. What about chores around the house? Surely he must have helped clean his room at least! Nope. Never did that either. In fact, Stanley had never even washed a spoon. His spoons were automatically cleaned. By spoon cleaning fairies or some shit like that.</p>
	<p>Whenever young Stanley was on the verge of getting hungry, food would magically appear before him. And, not just any ordinary food... awesome food. The exact food that he had been craving, without him even knowing that he was craving it.</p>
	<p>Stanley had never experienced the concept of “inconvenience”. The cable guy always showed up on time -- without making him wait around all day. Never did Stanley have to wait on hold on the phone. Never accidentally stepped in a puddle, causing his shoe to fill with nasty, street water.</p>
	<p>Stanley was the most boring little fucker on the planet.</p>
	<p>Was it his fault that he never had any of those life experiences that give the rest of us our character? No. No it wasn’t. It was probably the fault of some asshole sorcerer who cast a spell on him... or something. But, you know what? It doesn’t matter. He’s still a boring little fucker that none of us want to hang out with. (Unless our spoons are dirty and we feel lazy.)</p>
	<p>Let’s look at the flip side of that example. Let’s look at Edward, the guy that lives right next door to boring-as-fuck Stanley.</p>
	<p>On Edward's first day of kindergarten, he accidentally walked down to the mud factory (which, in case you were wondering, is a factory... that makes mud) and applied for, and got, a job. That's right, young Edward, quite unintentionally, was now a full time mud-maker. 7 am to 5pm every day.</p>
	<p>And when Edward got home, he had to clean his room. Because his baby sister had been in there. Again. The effect was not unlike a crazed, little tornado.</p>
	<p>Oh, and food! Poor, poor Edward. When he wanted a burger, he got a pizza. When he wanted a pizza, he got a burger. When he was interested in neither a pizza nor a burger... he got both (with one inside the other).</p>
	<p>Edward is, unlike Stanley, not at all boring. In fact, Edward is a generally awesome dude that is fun to hang out with. He knows what it's like to work hard, which means he is also quite familiar with playing hard as well. And the stories! Edward's stories, though predominantly about working in a mud factory, are the hit of every party.</p>
	<p>There is a simple lesson we can learn from this:</p>
	<p>Mac users are boring as fuck and shouldn't be invited to parties. Ever.</p>
	<p>[Man. I just know some Mac fanboy is going to throw this back at me as proof that I think Macintoshes are great somehow.]</p>

</body>
</html>
