<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Lessons for Creating Good Open-Source Software</title>
</head>

<body>

	<h1 class="heading">Lessons for Creating Good Open-Source Software</h1>

	<p class="noindent top">&#160;<a href="mailthrough.xhtml">1.</a> Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer’s personal itch.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="mailthrough.xhtml">2.</a> Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="mailthrough.xhtml">3.</a> Plan to throw one [version] away; you will, anyhow. (Copied from Frederick Brooks’ <i>The Mythical Man-Month</i>)</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="mailthrough.xhtml">4.</a> If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="mailthrough.xhtml">5.</a> When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="importanceusers.xhtml">6.</a> Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="releaseearly.xhtml">7.</a> Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="releaseearly.xhtml">8.</a> Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.</p>
	<p class="noindent">&#160;<a href="notarose.xhtml">9.</a> Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="notarose.xhtml">10.</a> If you treat your beta-testers as if they’re your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="popclientfetchmail.xhtml">11.</a> The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="popclientfetchmail.xhtml">12.</a> Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="popclientfetchmail.xhtml">13.</a> Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away. (Attributed to Antoine de Saint-Exupéry)</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="fetchmailgrowsup.xhtml">14.</a> Any tool should be useful in the expected way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="fetchmailgrowsup.xhtml">15.</a> When writing gateway software of any kind, take pains to disturb the data stream as little as possible—and never throw away information unless the recipient forces you to!</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="lessonsfetchmail.xhtml">16.</a> When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="lessonsfetchmail.xhtml">17.</a> A security system is only as secure as its secret. Beware of pseudo-secrets.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="socialcontext.xhtml">18.</a> To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.</p>
	<p class="noindent"><a href="socialcontext.xhtml">19.</a> Provided the development coordinator has a communications medium at least as good as the Internet, and knows how to lead without coercion, many heads are inevitably better than one.</p>

</body>
</html>
