<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Revision History</title>
</head>

<body>

	<h1 class="heading">Revision History</h1>

	<table>
		<tr><th>Revision</th><th>Description</th><th>Date</th><th>Author</th></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.57</td><td>New major section “<a href="eyeballscomplexity.xhtml">How Many Eyeballs Tame Complexity</a>”.</td><td>11<sup>th</sup> September 2000</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.52</td><td>MATLAB is a reinforcing parallel to Emacs. Corbatoó &amp; Vyssotsky got it in 1965.</td><td>28<sup>th</sup> August 2000</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.51</td><td>First DocBook version. Minor updates to Fall 2000 on the time-sensitive material.</td><td>24<sup>th</sup> August 2000</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.49</td><td>Added the HBS note on deadlines and scheduling.</td><td>5<sup>th</sup> May 2000</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.51</td><td>This the version that O’Reilly printed in the first edition of the book.</td><td>31<sup>st</sup> August 1999</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.45</td><td>Added the endnotes on the Snafu Principle, (pre)historical examples of bazaar development, and originality in the bazaar.</td><td>8<sup>th</sup> August 1999</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.44</td><td>Added the “On Management and the Maginot Line” section, some insights about the usefulness of bazaars for exploring design space, and substantially improved the Epilog.</td><td>29<sup>th</sup> July 1999</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.40</td><td>Added a correction of Brooks based on the Halloween Documents.</td><td>20<sup>th</sup> November 1998</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.39</td><td>I removed Paul Eggert’s ’graph on GPL vs. bazaar in response to cogent aguments from RMS on</td><td>28<sup>th</sup> July 1998</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.31</td><td>Added “<a href="epilog.xhtml">Epilog: Netscape Embraces the Bazaar!</a>”</td><td>10<sup>th</sup> February 1998</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.29</td><td>Changed “free software” to “open source”.</td><td>9<sup>th</sup> February 1998</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.27</td><td>Added the Perl Conference anecdote.</td><td>18<sup>th</sup> November 1997</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.20</td><td>Added the <a href="bibliography.xhtml">bibliography</a>.</td><td>7<sup>th</sup> July 1997</td><td>esr</td></tr>
		<tr><td>Revision 1.16</td><td>First official presentation at the Linux Kongress.</td><td>21<sup>st</sup> May 1997</td><td>esr</td></tr>
	</table>

</body>
</html>
